---
layout: default
title : Position and Displacement
---

## Position and Displacement

### 개념 요약

- The location of a particle relative to the origin of a coordinate system is given by a position vector r, which in unit-vector notation is

$$\mathbf{r} = x\hat{i} + y\hat{j} + z\hat{k}$$

Here $x\hat{i}$, $y\hat{j}$, and $z\hat{k}$ are the vector components of position vector $\mathbf{r}$, and $x$, $y$, and $z$ are its scalar components (as well as the coordinates of the particle).

- A position vector is described either by a magnitude and one or two angles for orientation, or by its vector or scalar components.

- If a particle moves so that its position vector changes from $\mathbf{r}_1$ to $\mathbf{r}_2$, the particle’s displacement $\Delta \mathbf{r}$ is

$$\Delta \mathbf{r} = \mathbf{r}_2 − \mathbf{r}_1.$$

The displacement can also be written as

$$\Delta \mathbf{r} =(x_2 − x_1)\hat{i} + (y_2 − y_1)\hat{j} + (z_2 − z_1)\hat{k} = \Delta x \hat{i} + \Delta y \hat{j} + \Delta z \hat{k}.$$

### 예제



### 연습 문제

> #### 1. The position vector for an electron is $\mathbf{r} = (5.0\text{ m}) \hat{i} − (3.0\text{ m}) \hat{j} + (2.0\text{ m})\hat{k}$. (a) Find the magnitude of $\mathbf{r}$. (b) Sketch the vector on a right-handed coordinate system.
>
> (a) $\mathbf{r}$의 크기를 $r$라 하자. 그러면
>
> $$r = \sqrt{(5.0\text{ m})^2 + (3.0\text{ m})^2 + (2.0\text{ m})^2} = 6.2\text{ m}.$$
>
> (b) Skip.

> #### 2. A watermelon seed has the following coordinates: $x = ‒5.0\text{ m}$, $y = 8.0\text{ m}$, and $z = 0\text{ m}$. Find its position vector (a) in unit-vector notation and as (b) a magnitude and (c) an angle relative to the positive direction of the $x$ axis. (d) Sketch the vector on a right-handed coordinate system. If the seed is moved to the $xyz$ coordinates ($3.00\text{ m}$, $0\text{ m}$, $0\text{ m}$), what is its displacement (e) in unit-vector notation and as (f) a magnitude and (g) an angle relative to the positive $x$ direction?
>
> (a) 수박 씨앗의 위치를 표현한 벡터를 $\mathbf{r}$이라 하자. 그러면 
>
> $$\mathbf{r} = (‒5.0\text{ m}) \hat{i} + (8.0\text{ m}) \hat{j} + (0\text{ m}) \hat{k}.$$
>
> (b) $\mathbf{r}$의 크기를 $r$라 하자. 그러면
>
> $$r = \sqrt{(‒5.0\text{ m})^2 + (8.0\text{ m})^2 + (0\text{ m})^2} = 9.4\text{ m}.$$
>
> (c) $\mathbf{r}$과 $x$ 축 사이 끼인 각을 $\theta_r$라 하자. 그러면 $\tan \theta_r = \frac{r_y}{r_x}$이므로
>
> $$\tan \theta_r = \frac{8.0\text{ m}}{‒5.0\text{ m}} = -1.6$$
>
> 이다. 이에 $\arctan$ 함수를 이용하여 $\theta_r$를 구할 수 있다.
>
> $$\arctan(\tan \theta_r) = \theta_r = -1.0 \text{ (rad)}.$$
>
> (d) Skip.
>
> (e) 수박 씨앗의 변위를 표현한 벡터를 $\mathbf{d}$라 하자. 그러면
>
> $$\mathbf{d} = (3.00\text{ m} - (‒5.0\text{ m})) \hat{i} + (0\text{ m} - 8.0\text{ m}) \hat{j} + (0\text{ m} - 0\text{ m}) \hat{k} = (8.0\text{ m}) \hat{i} - (8.0\text{ m}) \hat{j} + (0\text{ m}) \hat{k}.$$
>
> (f) $\mathbf{d}$의 크기를 $d$라 하자. 그러면
>
> $$d = \sqrt{(8.0\text{ m})^2 + (-8.0\text{ m})^2 + (0\text{ m})^2} = 11\text{ m}.$$
>
> (g) $\mathbf{d}$과 $x$ 축 사이 끼인 각을 $\theta_d$라 하자. 그러면 $\tan \theta_d = \frac{d_y}{d_x}$이므로
>
> $$\tan \theta_d = \frac{8.0\text{ m}}{‒8.0\text{ m}} = -1.0$$
>
> 이다. 이에 $\arctan$ 함수를 이용하여 $\theta_d$를 구할 수 있다.
>
> $$\arctan(\tan \theta_d) = \theta_d = -1.6 \text{ (rad)}.$$

> #### 3. A positron undergoes a displacement $\Delta \mathbf{r} = 2.0 \hat{i} − 3.0 \hat{j} + 6.0 \hat{k}$, ending with the position vector $\mathbf{r} = 3.0 \hat{j} − 4.0 \hat{k}$, in meters. What was the positron’s initial position vector?
>
> 시작 벡터를 $\mathbf{r}_s$라 하자. 그러면
>
> $$\mathbf{r_s} = (0 - 2.0) \hat{i} + (3.0 - (-3.0)) \hat{j} + (-4.0 - 6.0) \hat{k} = -2.0 \hat{i} + 6.0 \hat{j} + -10.0 \hat{k}.$$

> #### 4. The minute hand of a wall clock measures $10\text{ cm}$ from its tip to the axis about which it rotates. The magnitude and angle of the displacement vector of the tip are to be determined for three time intervals. What are the (a) magnitude and (b) angle from a quarter after the hour to half past, the (c) magnitude and (d) angle for the next half hour, and the (e) magnitude and (f) angle for the hour after that?
>
> 