---
layout: default
title : The Study of life reveals unifying themes
---

## The Study of life reveals unifying themes

### 개념 요약

- Organization Theme: New Properties Emerge at Successive Levels of Biological Organization
    + The hierarchy of life unfolds as follows: biosphere > ecosystem > community > population > organism > organ system > organ > tissue > cell > organelle > molecule > atom. With each step upward from atoms, new __emergent properties__ result from interactions among components at the lower levels. In an approach called reductionism, complex systems are broken down to simpler components that are more manageable to study. In __systems biology__, scientists attempt to model the dynamic behavior of whole biologi- cal systems by studying the interactions among the system’s parts.
    + Structure and function are correlated at all levels of biological organization. The cell, an organism’s basic unit of structure and function, is the lowest level that can perform all activities required for life. Cells are either prokaryotic or eukaryotic. __Eukaryotic cells__ contain membrane-enclosed organelles, including a DNA-containing nucleus. __Prokaryotic cells__ lack such organelles.

- Information Theme: Life’s Processes Involve the Expression and Transmission of Genetic Information
    + Genetic information is encoded in the nucleotide sequences of __DNA__. It is DNA that transmits heritable information from parents to offspring. DNA sequences (called __genes__) program a cell’s protein production by being transcribed into mRNA and then translated into specific proteins, a process called __gene expression__. Gene expression also produces RNAs that are not translated into protein but serve other important functions. __Genomics__ is the large-scale analysis of the DNA sequences of a species (its __genome__) as well as the comparison of genomes between species. __Bioinformatics__ uses computational tools to deal with huge volumes of sequence data.

- Energy and Matter Theme: Life Requires the Transfer and Transformation of Energy and Matter
    + Energy flows through an ecosystem. All organisms must perform work, which requires energy. __Producers__ convert energy from sunlight to chemical energy, some of which is then passed on to __consumers__. (The rest is lost from the ecosystem as heat.) Chemicals cyclebetweenorganismsand the environment.

- Interactions Theme: From Molecules to Ecosystems, Interactions Are Important in Biological Systems
    + In __feedback regulation__, a process is regulated by its output or end product. In negative feedback, accumulation of the end product slows its production. In positive feedback, an end product speeds up its own production.
    + Organisms interact continuously with physical factors. Plants take up nutrients from the soil and chemicals from the air and use energy from the sun.