---
layout: default
title : Some Particular Forces
---

## Some Particular Forces

### 개념 요약

- A gravitational force $\mathbf{F}_g$ on a body is a pull by another body. In most situations in this book, the other body is Earth or some other astronomical body. For Earth, the force is directed down toward the ground, which is assumed to be an inertial frame. With that assumption, the magnitude of $\mathbf{F}_g$ is

    $$F_g = mg,$$

    where $m$ is the body’s mass and $g$ is the magnitude of the free-fall acceleration.

- The weight $W$ of a body is the magnitude of the upward force needed to balance the gravitational force on the body. A body’s weight is related to the body’s mass by

    $$W = mg.$$

- A normal force $\mathbf{F}_N$ is the force on a body from a surface against which the body presses. The normal force is always perpendicular to the surface.

- A frictional force $\mathbf{f}$ is the force on a body when the body slides or attempts to slide along a surface. The force is always parallel to the surface and directed so as to oppose the sliding. On a frictionless surface, the frictional force is negligible.

- When a cord is under tension, each end of the cord pulls on a body. The pull is directed along the cord, away from the point of attachment to the body. For a massless cord (a cord with negligible mass), the pulls at both ends of the cord have the same magnitude $T$, even if the cord runs around a massless, frictionless pulley (a pulley with negligible mass and negligible friction on its axle to oppose its rotation).

### 예제