---
layout: default
title : Average Acceleration and Instantaneous Acceleration
---

## Average Acceleration and Instantaneous Acceleration

### 개념 요약

- If a particle’s velocity changes from $\mathbf{v}_1$ to $\mathbf{v}_2$ in time interval $\Delta t$, its average acceleration during $\Delta t$ is

$$\mathbf{a}_\text{avg} = \frac{\mathbf{v}_2 - \mathbf{v}_1}{\Delta t} = \frac{\mathbf{v}}{\Delta t}$$

- As $\Delta t$ is shrunk to 0, $\mathbf{a}_\text{avg}$ reaches a limiting value called either the acceleration or the instantaneous acceleration $\mathbf{a}$:

$$\mathbf{a} = \frac{d \mathbf{v}}{dt}.$$

- In unit-vector notation,

$$\mathbf{a} =a_x \hat{i} + a_y \hat{j} + a_z \hat{k},$$

where $a_x = \frac{dv_x}{dt}$, $a_y = \frac{dv_y}{dt}$, and $a_z = \frac{dv_z}{dt}$.

### 예제

### 연습 문제

> #### 1. The position $\mathbf{r}$ of a particle moving in an $xy$ plane is given by $\mathbf{r} = (2.00t^3 − 5.00t) \hat{i} + (6.00 − 7.00t^4) \hat{j}$, with $\mathbf{r}$ in meters and $t$ in seconds. In unit-vector notation, calculate (a) $\mathbf{r}$, (b) $\mathbf{v}$, and (c) $\mathbf{a}$ for $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$. (d) What is the angle between the positive direction of the $x$ axis and a line tangent to the particle’s path at $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$?
>
> (a) $\mathbf{r}(t)$에 $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$를 대입하자. 그러면
>
> $$\mathbf{r}(2.00) = (6.00 \hat{i} - 106.00 \hat{j}) \text{ m}$$
>
> 이다.
>
> (b) 위치 벡터를 미분하면 속도 벡터이다. 따라서,
>
> $$\mathbf{v} = \mathbf{r}' = ((6.00t^2 - 5.00) \hat{i} - 28.00t^3 \hat{j}) \text{ m}/\text{s}$$
>
> 이다. 여기에 $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$를 대입하면
>
> $$\mathbf{v}(2.00) = (19.00 \hat{i} - 224.00 \hat{j})\text{ m}/\text{s}$$
>
> 이다.
>
> (c) 속도 벡터를 미분하면 가속도 벡터가 된다. 그러므로
>
> $$\mathbf{a} = \mathbf{v}' = (12.00t \hat{i} - 84.00t^2 \hat{j}) \text{ m}/\text{s}^2$$
>
> 이다. 마찬가지로 $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$를 대입하면
>
> $$\mathbf{a}(2.00) = (24.00 \hat{i} - 336.00 \hat{j}) \text{ m}/\text{s}$$
>
> 이다.
>
> (d) 입자의 경로에서 $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$일 때의 접선은 $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$에서의 속도와 같다. 따라서, (b)에서 구한 값을 이용하면 된다. $t = 2.00 \text{ s}$에서의 접선과 $x$ 축이 이루는 각을 $\theta$라 하면
>
> $$\tan \theta = \frac{-224.00 \text{ m}/\text{s}}{19.00 \text{ m}/\text{s}} = -11.79$$
>
> $$\theta = \arctan (\tan \theta) = -1.486 \text{ (rad)}$$
>
> 이다.

> #### 2. At one instant a bicyclist is $40.0 \text{ m}$ due east of a park’s flagpole, going due south with a speed of $10.0 \text{ m}/\text{s}$. Then $30.0 \text{ s}$ later, the cyclist is $40.0 \text{ m}$ due north of the flagpole, going due east with a speed of $10.0 \text{ m}/\text{s}$. For the cyclist in this $30.0 \text{ s}$  interval, what are the (a) magnitude and (b) direction of the displacement, the (c) magnitude and (d) direction of the average velocity, and the (e) magnitude and (f) direction of the average acceleration?

> #### 3. A particle moves so that its position (in meters) as a function of time (in seconds) is $\mathbf{r} =  \hat{i} + 4t^2 \hat{j} + t \hat{k}$. Write expressions for (a) its velocity and (b) its acceleration as functions of time.

> #### 4. A proton initially has $\mathbf{v} = 4.0 \hat{i} − 2.0 \hat{j} + 3.0 \hat{k}$ and then $4.0 \text{ s}$ later has $\mathbf{v} = −2.0 \hat{i} − 2.0 \hat{j} + 5.0 \hat{k}$ (in meters per second). For that $4.0 \text{ s}$, what are (a) the proton’s average acceleration $$\mathbf{a}_\text{avg}$$ in unit-vector notation, (b) the magnitude of $$\mathbf{a}_\text{avg}$$, and (c) the angle between $$\mathbf{a}_\text{avg}$$ and the positive direction of the $x$ axis?

> #### 5. A particle leaves the origin with an initial velocity $\mathbf{v} = (3.00 \hat{i}) \text{ m}/\text{s}$ and a constant acceleration $\mathbf{a} = (−1.00 \hat{i} − 0.500 \hat{j}) \text{ m}/\text{s}$. When it reaches its maximum $x$ coordinate, what are its (a) velocity and (b) position vector?