---
layout: default
title : Newton’s First and Second Laws
---

## Newton’s First and Second Laws

### 개념 요약

- The velocity of an object can change (the object can accelerate) when the object is acted on by one or more forces (pushes or pulls) from other objects. Newtonian mechanics relates accelerations and forces.

- Forces are vector quantities. Their magnitudes are defined in terms of the acceleration they would give the standard kilogram. A force that accelerates that standard body by exactly $1 \text{ m}/\text{s}^2$ is defined to have a magnitude of $1 \text{ N}$. The direction of a force is the direction of the acceleration it causes. Forces are combined according to the rules of vector algebra. The net force on a body is the vector sum of all the forces acting on the body.

- If there is no net force on a body, the body remains at rest if it is initially at rest or moves in a straight line at constant speed if it is in motion.

- Reference frames in which Newtonian mechanics holds are called inertial reference frames or inertial frames. Reference frames in which Newtonian mechanics does not hold are called noninertial reference frames or noninertial frames.

- The mass of a body is the characteristic of that body that relates the body’s acceleration to the net force causing the acceleration. Masses are scalar quantities.

- The net force $\mathbf{F}_\text{net}$ on a body with mass $m$ is related to the body’s acceleration $\mathbf{a}$ by

    $$\mathbf{F}_\text{net} =m \mathbf{a},$$

    which may be written in the component versions

    $$F_\text{net,x} = ma_x \quad F_\text{net,y} = ma_y \quad \text{and} \quad F_\text{net,z} = ma_z.$$

    The second law indicates that in SI units

    $$1 \text{ N} = 1 \text{ kg} \cdot \text{m}/\text{s}.$$

-  A free-body diagram is a stripped-down diagram in which only one body is considered. That body is represented by either a sketch or a dot. The external forces on the body are drawn, and a coordinate system is superimposed, oriented so as to simplify the solution.

### 예제



### 연습 문제

> #### 1. 