---
layout: default
title : Mass
---

## Mass

### 개념 요약

- 다음은 질량의 정의이다.
    + 플랑크 상수 $h$가 $6.62607015 \times 10^{-34} \text{ J}\cdot\text{s}$가 되도록 하는 질량 단위를 $1 \text{ kg}$으로 한다. ($\text{ J}\cdot\text{s}$는 $\text{kg} \times \text{m}^2 \times \text{s}^{-1}$와 같다.)

- 밀도란 질량을 부피로 나눈 값이다.

    $$\rho = \frac{m}{V}$$

### 예제

### 연습 문제

> #### 1.  The record for the largest glass bottle was set in 1992 by a team in Millville, New Jersey—they blew a bottle with a volume of $193$ U.S. fluid gallons. (a) How much short of $1.0$ million cubic centimeters is that? (b) If the bottle were filled with water at the leisurely rate of $1.8 \text{ g}/\text{min}$, how long would the filling take? Water has a density of $1000 \text{ kg}/\text{m}^3$.
>
> (a) $193 \text{ gal} = 731 \text{ }\ell = 731 \times 1000 \text{ m}\ell = 731 \times 10^3 \text{ cm}^3$이다.
>
> (b) 걸린 시간을 $t$라 하면
>
> $$193 \text{ gal} = 731 \times 10^3 \text{ cm}^3 = \frac{t \times 1.8 \text{ g}}{1 \text{ min}} \times \frac{1}{1000 \text{ kg}/\text{m}^3} = \frac{t \times 1.8 \text{ g}}{1 \text{ min}} \times \frac{1}{1 \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3}$$
>
> 이므로 이를 $t$에 관한 식으로 정리하면
>
> \begin{align\*}t &= 731 \times 10^3 \text{ cm}^3 \times \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3 \times 1 \text{ min} \div 1.8 \text{ g} \\\\ &= 4.1 \times 10^5 \text{ min} = 280 \text{ days} \end{align\*}
>
> 이므로 주어진 부피에 가득 채우려면 $280$일이 필요하다.

> #### 2. Earth has a mass of $5.98 \times 10^{24} \text{ kg}$. The average mass of the atoms that make up Earth is $40 \text{ u}$. How many atoms are there in Earth?
>
> $1 \text{ u} = 1.66053886 \times 10^{-27} \text{ kg}$이므로 
>
> $$5.98 \times 10^{24} \text{ kg} \div 40 \text{ u} = 9.0 \times 10^{49}$$
>
> 이다. 따라서, 지구에는 $9.0 \times 10^{49}$ 개의 원자가 있다.

> #### 3. Gold, which has a density of $19.32 \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3$, is the most ductile metal and can be pressed into a thin leaf or drawn out into a long fiber. (a) If a sample of gold, with a mass of $27.63 \text{ g}$, is pressed into a leaf of $1.000 \text{ }\mu\text{m}$ thickness, what is the area of the leaf? (b) If, instead, the gold is drawn out into a cylindrical fiber of radius $2.500 \text{ }\mu\text{m}$, what is the length of the fiber?
>
> (a) 얇은 판의 면적을 $A$라 하자. 그러면
>
> $$A \times 1.000 \text{ }\mu\text{m} \times 19.32 \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3 = 27.63 \text{ g}$$
>
> $$A = \frac{27.63}{19.32} \times \frac{1 \text{ cm}^3}{1.000 \times 10^{-4} \text{ cm}} = 14.30 \times 10^3 \text{ cm}^2$$
>
> 이다. 따라서, 얇은 판의 면적은 $1.430 \text{ m}^2$이다.
>
> (b) 금섬유의 길이를 $L$이라 하자. 그러면
>
> $$\pi \times (2.500 \text{ }\mu\text{m})^2 \times L \times 19.32 \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3 = 27.63\text{ g}$$
>
> $$L = \frac{27.63 \times 1 \text{ cm}^3}{\pi \times 19.32 \times (2.500 \times 10^{-4} \text{ cm})^2} = 7.284 \times 10^6 \text{ cm}$$
>
> 이다. 따라서, 금섬유의 길이는 $72.84 \text{ km}$이다.

> #### 4. (a) Assuming that water has a density of exactly $1 \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3$, find the mass of one cubic meter of water in kilograms. (b) Suppose that it takes $10.0 \text{ h}$ to drain a container of $5700 \text{ m}^3$ of water. What is the “mass flow rate,” in kilograms per second, of water from the container?
>
> (a) 물의 무게를 $m$이라 할 때
>
> $$m = 1 \text{ cm}^3 \times 1 \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3 = 1 \text{ g}$$
>
> 이므로 $1 \times 10^{-3} \text{ kg}$이다.
>
> (b) $5700 \text{ m}^3$의 물을 $10.0 \text{ h}$ 동안 채운 것이므로 그 비율은
>
> $$\frac{5700 \text{ m}^3 \times 1 \text{ g}/\text{cm}^3}{10.0 \text{ h}} = \frac{5700 \times (10^2)^3 \text{ g}}{10.0 \text{ h}} = \frac{5700 \times 10^6 \times 10^{-3} \text{ kg}}{10.0 \times 60 \times 60 \text{ s}} = 0.158 \text{ kg}/\text{s}$$
>
> 이다.

> #### 5. Grains of fine California beach sand are approximately spheres with an average radius of $50 \text{ }\mu\text{m}$ and are made of silicon dioxide, which has a density of $2600 \text{ kg}/\text{m}^3$. What mass of sand grains would have a total surface area (the total area of all the individual spheres) equal to the surface area of a cube $1.00 \text{ m}$ on an edge?

> #### 6. During heavy rain, a section of a mountainside measuring $2.5 \text{ km}$ horizontally, $0.80 \text{ km}$ up along the slope, and $2.0 \text{ m}$ deep slips into a valley in a mud slide. Assume that the mud ends up uniformly distributed over a surface area of the valley measuring $0.40 \text{ km} \times 0.40 \text{ km}$ and that mud has a density of $1900 \text{ kg}/\text{m}^3$. What is the mass of the mud sitting above a $4.0 \text{ m}^2$ area of the valley floor?


 
<!--
- 질량
    + 플랑크 상수 $h$가 $6.62607015 \times 10^{-34} \text{ J ⋅ s}$가 되도록 하는 질량 단위를 $1 \text{ kg}$으로 한다. ($\text{J ⋅ s}$는 $\text{kg} \times \text{m}^2 \times \text{s}^{-1}$와 같다.)

- 밀도
    + 밀도는 질량을 부피로 나눈 값이다.

    $$\rho = \frac{m}{V}$$
-->